ok so moving on what we going to do now is
clean up some of this
code and we're going to put the code
back to how it was before because we
finished I finished that part of the
video where I just want to demonstrate these
multiple variables canvas and canvas 2 so lets
actually put those back but before I do
that there is probably something that you
may have picked up and perhaps its been
bugging you for a few videos now I made a
typo here on line 7 I guess I'm human as
actually in my haste to create the video
I haven't fixed it so parblolah instead of parabola so I'm going to right click
that refactor rename and call it what it what
should have been
and its parabola and color
click on refactor and that actually fix it or will fix it
comes up here an basically tells us
where it is in the program and we can click on
over here do refactor ok so that's fix
that up and you can see that also fixed up on
line 41 ok so let's clean up this
program and remove some of
this extra code so in the previous video we
removed the print let's get rid of the
multiple draw axis so I'm going to
close down and delete these 2 canvas objects which
objects other than the call to it the print
going to delete that we no longer need that any more
and also the plot method actually that's
ok for now but the other thing I
wanted to point out here what I remembered was i
didnt also change lines 14 and 15
notice how its still pointing out to canvas
so that was still accessing the canvas
object from the main program and not
from the function so that's another
reason why if you wanting to make sure that
you don't name these things the same so
there's no confusion so that should actually been be page so I put that back to page now
I can leave that print in their now so their also
should be just page now because we just
referencing that variable and the other
thing to do is just make sure on line 30
the width is set backed 640 so again if
you are using a different number they're
you just basically doubling back to what it
originally in my case it was 640 X 480
so now we should have our original program
back again so I would just run this gain to make
sure it still works and tab over and
we've now got it working nicely again on the
screen and now its centered and we've now only got one
axis so that's good that's all working how
it should have been so what we gonna do
now is just change this around a
little bit more and I mentioned I think
in the last video or the one before
that the parabola function would be more
useful if it actually did the plotting
and all we had to do was call it with it the
canvas and the size we wanted so
instead of actually having to create a
range like this on lines 35 to 37 every
time we want to essentially call the
parabola function we should be able to
just pass size and get it to do the work for us so
how do we go about that when we make a
change to this parabola method and what we are going to do
is we are going to change this instead of calling it
x we are going to pass the canvas which we are going to call page and we are also gonna pass a size as
well  so.....
.....
....and what we're going to
do is instead of returning this value
because we won't need to return it anymore we're going to actually call the plot
direct so...... and we
don't actually need the return any more
because we're not going to be returning
that data type so you can see what we've
done their we've essentially duplicated
what was on lines 36 to 38
but we put that into a method so that we
can call a method to do that hard work
for us and the method you can see there is
calculating X&Y
and basically calling the plot
function to actually plot that out on the
screen so consequently now we've done
that we can come down here on the line 36
we can delete that and we can type....
.....
and if we run this now...you can their's 2 their now so its working
but of course we got the same issue now the
parabolas are upside down so what I did
is I actually forgot that we need to plot negative y rather than Y and it's
probably best taken I got so often so I could fix the
problem by negating y and plotting the line
this is the code that's on line 10 as you can see up there so I
could negate that they're by putting a
negative in front of it but to save
having to do that every time I want to plot a point to its probably a good
idea to make that adjustment in the plot
function itself because this is
something we need to do every time
we are plotting this parabola so what I'm gonna do
is change the plot function
and at the same time you gonna get rid
of that last warning so close “it down and move this over you can see we've largely fix this
errors we still got the original
one there in relation to the import
which is fine
we will leave that but this one here is
the only one left because we're basically fix
some of these by renaming them correctly
but the plot function on line 23 has still
got the old canvas subject or canvas parameter name being canvas and
IntelliJ is still complaining
about that or giving us a warning at
least so I will do that will rename
that and will also fix this so it's
negative y and that should fix the
problems so if I delete that and convert that
and call it page but I could have refactored it of course.....and where its got
y + 1 we are going to input negative y + 1 and that should fix that problem and you can see as
far as IntelliJ is considered now we got the
tick there that it's quite happy that we
haven't got any more of these weird errors
so I now that I've done that we should be able
to run this and we should find that are
actually the correct way up our parabolas
so let's have a look at them and that's
a very cool effect but that wasn't what was meant to
happen so what I have done there
is added one negative y you can see here
on line 24 but I did not update the other one
so what we actually need to do is do
that in both places so the line should be x and that should be
negative y...and then its x +1 and then its negative y + 1
and then
the fields so if we do that probably won't look quite as good as that but it will actually be a correct parabola
so lets have a look their you go that's what I should
have done so it looks quite cool what we did but
that was obviously wrong so that's the
correct parabolas their is 2 of them and
they are  both the right way up there which
is good it's good it's a step in the
right direction so the users of the plot
function can focus on how they expect the
points to be plotted without having to remember to negate y and that is obviously
ideal to place that in a function to
allow the programmer not have to
remember all these things because
that's what a function is it's a code
that is going to be duplicated or replicated
repeated a number of times so it makes
sense to put that in there so that the
program calling it doesn't have to remember
to do that now theres another way that
can be made to the parabola function
actually there at the moment the loop
calculates
now at the moment the
loop calculates the value of y you can see
on line 9 for both positive and negative values
of x but the parabola is symmetric about
the y axis so there's really no point
calculating y twice so what I mean
by that I'm gonna change this range where it's got For x
a range of minus size to size we only really
need to just change this......calculate it once which you can see we doing the on line 9
and that's still going to be the same
calculation but when we plot it we can
plot it that's correct there but we can add
a second plot now.....
because essentially its the same thing we
just negating it and it's save us
having to go through that entire range
so hopefully this is really pointing out
some of the advantages of functions here
so we're changing the code in a single
place and every parabola that's drawn
now benefits from the more efficient code so will just run this
again to make sure it works because and you can see its still working and its more
efficient so that's the great thing
about functions you write it in one place
and calling it in multiple places and we
can make those changes and it just saves
time and it's way more efficient
now this may not look too
impressive because we only drawn 2 parabolas so
let's add a function to draw circles for
a bit more practice so we are gonna add some code and
will add it up here on line 14 so....
.....
....
...we are gonna have to fix that math up so
we need to import a library their we need to fix that up so....
....
...and we need to do an import math their
for that libraries so we put that up on the first line.....ok so let me put the image on the screen their and what we should
have their you can see the code now starting on
line 18 y = h + math.squareroot so in terms
of calculating a circle its symmetric
about both axis so you only need to
calculate a quarter of the points of its
circumference
when you creating functions make sure
you've got two spaces between each one
to avoid getting a warning for IntelliJ
so on line 18 we get a square root which can be
either positive or negative to give to
give this 2 values for y now
rather than calculating the square root twice we can
just negate y and add two times h
back on again
so a little bit of algebra involved their that you can
actually see there on the screen there now
because minus y will also take off
h we add 2 times h back on lines
20 and 22 in the same for x we
calculate the values for the other
quadrants now if your struggling with this
algebra and don't worry too much about
the actual formula the important thing here
is that the use of the function rather
than the maths behind it now mathematical
functions are just one of the examples one
of the things I should say that Python
functions can be used for
and we are gonna be looking at plenty of other
examples as well and I've added the import
as I mentioned on line 1 as well so this
will actually work so now we've got this function to
draw circles with any radius centered where we liked on the canvas and we can
call it a few times to create a pattern so
let's go ahead and do that now so down
the bottom here just after the
two parabola calls lets actually add
some and what I'm going to do just to save a bit
of time I'm gonna paste in some code
...come down here and paste this code
and you can see their is a circle we
are gonna call multiple times with
different values
....so lets just run this and see that it works
and one thing to note is the circles themselves do get vague around the edges and at
the moment the function only plots
points the integer values of x
so we don't get many points plotted and we can't use
decimal values in the step for our range
so I'm gonna leave the video here in the next video
we'll just talked a little bit more about
this and then we'll also have a mini
challenge for you to do as well so I'll
see you in the next video